{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red24\green25\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Bonnet 1998 = Bonnet, Guillaume. 1998. Les mots latins de l\'92albanais. L\'92Harmattan.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Camarda 1864 = Camarda, Demetrio. 1864. Saggio di grammatologia comparata sulla lingua albanese. Livorno:\
Succesore di Egisto Vignozzi.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\'c7abej 1962 = \'c7abej, Eqrem. 1962. Zur Charakteristik der lateinischen Lehnworter im Albanischen. Revue de\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Linguistique (Bucure\uc0\u351 ti), 7:161\'96199.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'c7abej 1976 = \'c7abej, Eqrem. 1976. Studime etimologjik\'eb n\'eb fush\'eb t\'eb shqip\'ebs. I-II. Tiran\'eb: Akademia e shkencave e RPS t\'eb Shqip\'ebris\'eb.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'c7abej 1986 = \'c7abej, Eqrem. 1986. Studime gjuh\'ebsore, volume I\'96VIII. Prishtin\'eb: Rilindja.\
\
Dashi 2013 = Dashi, Brunilda. 2013. Italianismi nella lingua albanese. Edizioni Nuova Cultura.\
\
Demiraj 1997 = Demiraj, Bardhyl and Dayan, Peter. 1997. Albanische Etymologien: Untersuchungen zum albanischen Erbwortschatz, volume 134. Rodopi.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 De Vaan 2018 = De Vaan, Michiel. 2018. 95. The phonology of Albanian. In Handbook of Comparative and Historical\
Indo-European Linguistics, pages 1732\'961749. De Gruyter Mouton.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Haarman 1972 = Haarman, H. 1972. Der lateinische Lehnwortschatz im Albanischen. Hamburg: Helmut\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Buske. \
\
Hamp 1968 = Hamp, Eric. 1968. Albanian jet\'eb \'93life\'94, in J. Corominas (ed.) 
\f1\i Essays in Romance Philology from the University of Chicago in honor of the XII International Congress of Romance Linguistics and Philology, Bucuresti, 15-20 April 1968. 
\f0\i0 Chicago: Department of Romance Languages and Literatures and of Linguistics, University of Chicago: 41-7. \
\
Helbig 1903 = Helbig, R. 1903. Die italienischen Elemente im Albanesischen. JA Barth.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Huld 1979 = Huld, Martin Edward. 1979. An Etymological Glossary of Selected Albanian Items. University of California, Los Angeles. PhD thesis.\
\'a0\
Huld 1984 = Huld, Martin Edward. 1984. Basic Albanian Etymologies. Columbus: Slavica.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Huld 1986 = Huld, Martin. Edward. 1986. Accentual stratification of Ancient Greek loanwords in Albanian. Zeitschrift\
f\'fcr vergleichende Sprachforschung, 99(2. H):245\'96253.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Joseph 2006 = Joseph, Brian D: 2006. Some Ancient Shared Metaphors in the Balkans. 
\f1\i Studio Albanica. 
\f0\i0 \
\
Joseph 2022 = Joseph,Brian D. 2022. Here\'92s to a Long Life! Albanian Reflections of Proto-Info-European Semantics. In 
\f1\i Contact, Variation, and Reconstruction in the Ancient Indo-Euroepan Languages: Between Linguistics and Philology, 
\f0\i0 eds. Michele Bianconi & Marta Capano. Leiden: Brill. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Landi 1989 = Landi, A. 1989. Gli elementi latini nella lingua albanese. Napoli: Edizioni Scientifiche Italiane.\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Marr 2023 = Marr, Clayton. 2023. The Angevin\'97Albanian element in the Albanian lexicon. Zeitschrift f\'fcr Balkanologie. Forthcoming. \
\
Mih\uc0\u259 escu 1993 = Mih\u259 escu, Haralambie. 1993. La romanit\'e9 dans la Sud-Est de l\'92Europe. (Full citation = see Bonnet 1998)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Meyer 1891 = Meyer, Gustav. 1891. Etymologisches Worterbuch der albanesischen Sprache. Strassburg.\
\
REW = Meyer-L\'fcbke 1935 = Meyer-L\'fcbke, Walter. 1935. Romanisches etymologisches W\'f6rterbuch. Heidelberg: Carl Winter.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Miklosich 1871 = Miklosich, F. 1871. Albanische Forschungen: II. Die romanischen Elemente im Albanischen. Wien: Karl Gerold\'92s Sohn; Denkschr. Akad. Wien XIX.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Newmark 1998 = Newmark, Leonard. 1998. Albanian-English Dictionary. Oxford University Press, USA.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Or\'ebl 1998 = Or\'ebl, Vladimir. 1998. Albanian etymological dictionary. Brill.\
\'a0\
Or\'ebl 2000 = Or\'ebl, Vladimir. 2000. A concise historical grammar of the Albanian language: reconstruction of Proto-Albanian. Brill.\
\'a0\
Schumacher and Matzinger 2013 = Schumacher, Stefan and Matzinger, Joachim. 2013. \cf3 \cb4 Die Verben des Altalbanischen: Belegw\'f6rterbuch, Vorgeschichte und Etymologie. Wiesbaden: Otto Harassowitz. \cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Topalli 2017 = Topalli, Kolec. 2017. Fjalor etimologjik i gjuh\'ebs shqipe. Qendra e Studimeve Albanologjike,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Instituti i Gjuh\'ebsis\'eb dhe i Let\'ebrsis\'eb.}